.\" @(#)ps_io.3 1.30 94/10/31 SMI; from SVr4
'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright 1994 Peter Crom
.nr X
.TH ps_io 3 "9 Dec 1994" "Werkgroep Informatica" "BIBLICAL LANGUAGES"
.SH NAME
ps_io, ps_open, ps_close, ps_putword \- ECA-word - .ps file interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B
#include <ps_io.h>
.LP
.B
#include <ECA_word.h>
.LP
.BI "ps_t *ps_open(char " "*filename" );
.LP
.BI "int ps_close(ps_t " "*ps" );
.LP
.BI "int ps_putword(ps_t " "*ps" ,
.BI "word_p " "*word" );
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions describe an interface for writing a PS (Phrase
Structure) file out of subsequent ECA words.
A detailed description of a PS file can be found in
.BR ps_io (5),
and a similarly detailed description of an ECA word can be read in
.BR ECA_word (5).
.LP
.br
The
.B ps_open(\|)
function returns a pointer to a PS file object. The object contains a
filepointer to a
.IR filename .ps2
file and some administrative flags depending on the words that
have been processed in the past. 
These flags control the interpretation of the imperfect tense, the
perfect tense and the verseborders. An existing PS file with the same
name will be overwritten.
.LP
The
.B ps_close(\|)
function stops the process of PS file making. It checks if
the last line was properly closed. If not, it will close it properly.
It also returns memory involved with the phrase structure file.
.LP
The
.B ps_putword(\|)
function writes one line in the file
.IR filename .ps,
describing an ECA-word in the old PS file structure. It automatically
recognizes verse boundaries, adding empty lines on a verse boundary.
It expects the words to be given in the correct order, in order to
produce the correct verbal tense information.
.LP
.SH "RETURN VALUES" 
On success,
.B ps_open(\|)
returns  a PS file object.
Otherwise, it returns a NULL pointer and sets an errormessage.
.LP
.B ps_close(\|)
returns the returnvalue of the associated
.B fclose
function call.
.LP
If the function
.B ps_putword (\|)
operated well, the returnvalue will be TRUE, otherwise, it is FALSE,
and an errormessage will be set.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR biblan (3),
.BR ps_io (5),
.BR ECA_word (5).
